Go therefore and make disciples of people of all the nations.
With those words, Jesus commissioned His followers to share the good news about the kingdom of God.
This message brought comfort for those distressed and made available the hope of everlasting life for all mankind.
It's by means of God's kingdom that this will be accomplished.
In our day, the same message is being conveyed on a much larger scale.
For over 100 years, Jehovah's Witnesses have been organized for this very purpose.
They speak this message in hundreds of languages.
They deliver it in more than 230 land.
Bringing solace to millions in a troubled world.
That is why we shall not fear the earth undergo change.
It has become the greatest preaching campaign the world has ever known.
Jehovah's Witnesses are well known for living by Bible standards.
Who really are Jehovah's Witnesses?
Some of them may be your neighbors.
People you meet every day.
However, it is their Bible education program that is most visible to others.
How is their activity organized, directed and financed?
New York, USA, world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses since 1909.
It is also the location of the largest of the more than 100 branches of Jehovah's Witnesses worldwide.
In the first century, the sharing of good news was governed by a body of spirit anointed men.
Likewise today, the entire worldwide organization is directed by a group of mature Christian men called the government body.
These men have appointed other committees of Jehovah's Witnesses to direct the worldwide preaching.
I remember the agenda deals with the field service report for the United States. Any comments?
Branch facilities include a home named Bethel.
That is a Bible word, meaning House of God, an appropriate name for the type of work that is being done.
Known as the Bethel family, thousands of spiritual men and women from various backgrounds freely volunteer their time and talents,
everything they do at Bethel is ultimately linked to Jesus' command to preach the good news of the kingdom in all the earth.
The writing department provides spiritual information that is prepared in the form of magazines, brochures, books and booklets
for the entire organization. The research is careful and thorough. The information, reliable and authoritative.
The purpose of the Watchtower magazine is to exalt Jehovah God as sovereign Lord of the universe.
It encourages faith in God's now-raining King Jesus Christ.
It comforts all peoples with the good news of God's kingdom and keeps watch on world events as they fulfill Bible prophecy.
A Wake magazine shows how to cope with today's problems by using the Bible.
It points to the real meaning behind current events, yet always stays politically neutral and does not elevate one race above another.
Most important, a Wake Bill's confidence in the creator's promise of a paradise earth.
In order to spread the good news, translators are vital.
The Watchtower magazine is printed simultaneously in more than 140 languages, adding to the unity of this international organization.
It looks we have received back the answer to the question we have asked the translation services.
Okay, very good. Let's look at it.
It's right here on the screen.
The Bible is the main textbook of Jehovah's Witnesses.
The translation services department provides help for translation of the Bible and other publications into many different languages.
The here in this corner you have the English text.
Computer programs speed up the process of translation and improve its accuracy.
Printing Bible literature in over 400 languages requires a large array of character sets.
Jehovah's Witnesses designed a unique multi-language electronic photo-type setting system known as MEPs to compose pages in the languages being printed.
By using MEPs, life-saving literature reaches people in many languages.
This message is also enhanced through pictures.
In addition to artwork, scenes are staged and photographed for use in our publications.
Craig, I think we're really close. We can probably go to the left just a little bit more.
I like that. That's a good idea. Okay, sweetie. On this one we have to look really sad.
I know just what you mean because I feel the same way.
But on this subject I have a wonderful magazine that talks about why bad things happen.
Electronic files of publications are made available to printing branches around the world.
These branches then print and distribute the literature to the congregations of Jehovah's Witnesses in their respective geographical regions.
Printaries in various countries produce magazines and also bind in book form Bible literature.
The largest of these is located near the town of Walkill, New York, USA.
Jehovah's Witnesses began their own printing operations in New York in 1920.
The purpose then?
And now, published Bible truth.
What is printed here can mean life to the reader.
Jesus said at John 173,
this means everlasting life.
They're taking in knowledge of you the only true God and of the one whom you said forth, Jesus Christ.
To keep up with the growing printing demands of Jehovah's Witnesses, high speed presses are required.
In one year nearly two billion pieces of literature are printed.
In the bindery printed pages become bound books.
Signatures of books are assembled and glued together on high speed equipment.
Nearly 1.7 million bound books and Bibles are produced each month by just the Walkill printer.
The same type of work is done at various branches strategically situated around the world.
These books are more than ink and paper.
Bible-based publications have changed thinking, attitudes, habits and the very personalities of millions of persons, young and old.
The Bible states at Hebrews 4.12 that the word of God is alive and exerts power and is able to discern thoughts and intentions of the heart.
All publications produced here focus on the book most used by Jehovah's Witnesses.
The Bible.
The New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures is an accurate, easy to understand, fresh translation of God's word designed for Bible study.
The number of printed copies passed the 100 million mark at the turn of this century.
In addition to printed publications, audio and video programs also communicate Bible truth.
By means of DVDs and CDs, the audio video services department produces programs in many languages that reach millions worldwide.
While producing audio video programs and printed publications is one thing, shipping them is another.
The congregation literature orders are first gathered and packed.
Later, they are sorted for distribution.
In addition to the shipping department at Wal-Kill, similar operations are cared for at the other print relocations worldwide.
While a number of branches print and bind looks, much literature still must be shipped to other countries in each geographic region.
From initial research and writing to printing and binding, as much as two years may have elapsed, home lifesaving literature is on its way.
The world today, we say that can recognize that all mankind are in need of much comfort.
The visually impaired are reached with the good news through the New World Translation and dozens of other Bible publications in Braille.
Text from the writing department is converted into Braille and publications are embossed.
Each issue of the Watchtower magazine is available to the visually impaired by subscription.
The death and hearing impaired are also reached with the good news.
By means of Bible publications translated into sign language and recorded on video.
Millions, shake and go, know what time period, people leave it, wicked, he avenge, flood, destroy, same as now, all over will.
While American sign language is used in many countries, approval has been given to produce Bible literature in more than 35 different sign languages worldwide.
Witnesses place a high value on life and desire the best medical treatment available.
Based on Bible injunctions in both the ancient Hebrew and in the Christian Greek scriptures, blood transfusion is not a medical option for Jehovah's Witnesses' Earthwide.
To assist in this area, the Hospital Information Services Department researches medical literature to keep up to date with rapidly advancing alternatives to blood transfusion.
Such alternatives are now widely accepted and used by physicians worldwide.
Hospital Information Services also provides training for thousands of elders who serve on some 1,500 Hospital liaison committees.
These committees seek out skilled physicians who are willing to provide care without donor blood.
The service department in each branch territory manages the preaching activity.
The local elders agree, the circuit overseer agrees, you've got a good number of publishers, this is fine.
They also correspond with traveling overseers and record the efforts of Jehovah's Witnesses in the field ministry each month.
With thousands of new congregations being formed each year, there is a constant demand for more kingdom halls.
In many countries, innovative, quick construction methods are used.
Rapid growth in the number of Jehovah's Witnesses calls for expansion of many of the branches worldwide.
How are they financed?
All expenses are met by voluntary donations, no dues, tithes or collections.
Following the Bible principle, each one contributes as he has resolved in his heart.
The organization has become proficient in designing and engineering its own housing and printing buildings.
It helps us to take advantage of what's going on inside the printer.
Excellent, I think the brothers will have some really nice choices with this.
I really think option B will meet the needs of the brothers and it fits in so nicely too with the existing building elevations.
Yeah, I would agree, I would also recommend option B.
Very good, then we'll go ahead and develop this clear story option in it.
At all Bethel facilities around the world, regular maintenance saves money.
It keeps buildings and machinery in good order.
Technicians and craftsmen work behind the scenes to keep the organization running smoothly.
Many learn their skills after arriving at Bethel.
Patterson, New York.
Home to an educational center which promotes Bible instruction to the ends of the earth.
This facility has schools for overseers of Jehovah's Witnesses who care for responsibilities in congregations, circuits, districts and branches.
The intense Bible education these ones receive in class assists them to advance the preaching work in their assigned territories.
Similar classes have been instituted in various countries for the benefit of traveling overseers regionally.
These mature Christian men care for the preaching work in their respective branch territories.
These classes ensure consistent Bible-based direction for millions around the globe.
Another aspect of this facility is the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead.
Founded in 1943, it trains two classes of students each year.
An intensive five-month Bible course prepares them for missionary assignments all around the world.
The Temple is given to Ezekiel to pass on to the Jews.
Gilead students share the results of their long hours of research by giving reports to the class.
Gilead graduation at the Watchtower Educational Center.
This is a special day for all in attendance.
The preachy work is to prepare your heart.
If in your heart you really want to help people, you'll find a way to do it.
Now from Belgium, we have Alar and Tamura Duman, and they're going to Indonesia too.
These students and thousands like them have graduated from Gilead and have entered the missionary field.
This involves sharing the good news along jungle rivers of South America
and by flying into remote and isolated villages where interested persons are located.
Here in this brochure, Bible truth seeps into far-flung regions.
Indeed, to the most distant part of the earth.
We would like to welcome the Bethel family to our morning worship.
First, let's have the Scripture text read.
A day at Bethel begins just as it does for many families of Jehovah's Witnesses all around the world, with a discussion of a Bible text.
In today's text Jesus expresses His determination to finish God's work, and it's a privilege to participate in God's work.
There is another part of the regular spiritual feeding program.
Quiet places are found in Bethel libraries.
I'd like to give a very warm welcome to all for our Bethel family watch star study this evening.
At Bethel branches around the world, Monday night is set aside for the family watch star study.
This helps them prepare for their own congregation needs.
In their public preaching work, the Bethel family uses the very publications they have produced.
In Brandon's my name and my friend Kurt.
I'd like to ask you a question.
Do you think the west of this is Justin?
We've just been talking to people about stress.
United States Bethel.
Home to a large family.
Who cooks the meals?
Wash is the laundry.
Keeps house.
How's it looking for you to sleep?
There's a lot of guests right now.
Yeah, I can help with your life.
Okay, thanks.
In order for the Bethel family to make a neat appearance as ministers,
tons of laundry are cleaned every week.
Hard work makes for a hearty appetite.
The kitchen fills the need with nutritious meals served seven days a week.
Annual conventions are a spiritual highlight for Jehovah's Witnesses around the globe.
They follow the Bible precedent set in ancient Israel.
Arrangements for conventions begin with the convention department.
Sound is so important at our conventions.
Careful thought is given to convention location and size.
Arrangements are made for these large gatherings in all parts of the earth.
At times, delegates from other countries join local witnesses
for a truly international gathering that demonstrates the worldwide unity
found in Bible-based beliefs and morality.
In addition to such large-scale annual conventions,
periodically 10 to 20 congregations from a local circuit have one or two-day assemblies.
Here young and old alike share encouraging experiences.
Sound Bible Council is given on a vast array of subjects
so as to maintain a high moral standard to avoid common pitfalls of life
and to strengthen family ties and marriages.
Even more instrumental to the shaping of wholesome Christians
are the regular meetings that are held three days a week
in upwards of 100,000 congregations.
How can you find the true religion?
Would that be all right? Yes, that would be fine.
Here, scriptural insight is given on a variety of topics
so that all can benefit from theocratic ministry school education.
The Theocratic ministry school book reminds us that what we say last
is often remembered the longest.
New congregations meetings, new ones can progress spiritually
by studying the Bible with a mature Christian minister.
Okay, Jordan, our question is why do you not need to fear
making a dedication to God?
After thoroughly studying Bible standards and conforming their lives to them,
new witnesses are baptized in symbol of their dedication to God.
Not an end, but the beginning of an expanded ministry
sharing Bible truth with others.
So please note, sir, that there will be a new earth,
a paradise earth.
Well, men can enjoy living forever under God's kingdom.
Imagine paradise restored on earth.
Billions will be resurrected.
They will need to be educated in God's ways.
There will be much work to do to accommodate them.
What a joy the new world will be.
The spirit of peace and Christian brotherhood, earth water.
Lift up your eyes and view the fields, said Jesus,
that they are white for harvesting.
Since the New World will be,
the spirit of peace and Christian brotherhood, earth water,
for harvesting.
Since those words were spoken, millions have been gathered.
And the harvest continues today.
Who are included in the harvest?
Honest-hearted persons who long for better conditions on the earth.
People who develop a genuine love for truth by earnestly studying the Bible
and sincerely applying its message in their daily lives.
And as love of the good news grows,
so does the desire to share it with others.
Jehovah's Witnesses, as an organization,
are really quick to share the good news with people of all nations
before the end comes.
To that end, the building of branch facilities,
assembly halls and kingdom halls,
has served to accommodate the influx of all those being taught by Jehovah.
With God's new world so close at hand,
it may be that many of these fine facilities will continue to be used
as centers of education.
And this education will continue until the earth will certainly
be filled with the knowledge of Jehovah,
as though waters are covering the very scene.